hey guys if I look exhausted it's
because I am exhausted early early
morning here in Victoria Harbour on my
way to the gym to do my 200 push-ups
just a couple people out here in the
early morning jogging and such okay I'm
making this video partly because I
should have forgot to bring my books
with me to the gym and I got to the gym
if it weren't open yet alright they're
opening a little bit later today so they
can do yoga classes before they open up
the floor for the rest of us to lift
weights it's another story so come down
and see the seagulls maybe we'll see
some seals maybe we'll see some some
river otters to hear on here on the
coast before I go and go on the Floyd's
look guys inequality always has this
kind of aura of injustice about it and I
think as children we appreciate or were
taught to appreciate fables stories in
which the poor become rich the rich
become poor the ugly duckling rose up to
be a swan the ugly girl grows up to be a
beautiful princess even that that poor
people marry rich people which is
statistically very unlikely in our
society and historically in European
society we we respond positively the
stories that don't represent the
familiar tragedy of the rich getting
richer of the poor getting poorer of
people's disadvantages just getting
worse and worse as this life goes on and
of course I think we all rank hole
against this also within the system of
formal education credentials and in
terms of informal education being an
autodidact educating yourself just
learning without the strictures of a
university around you whether a teacher
without an assigned textbook without a
test or an exam simply the inequalities
and human intelligence those can be
quite scary and quite frustrating to
that natural sense of human justice I
don't know just the yearning the
yearning for people to have an even
playing field for for the game to be
fair rather than rather than rigged
there was a comment on my most recent
video that got a lot of thumbs up and I
don't think people were giving it a
thumbs up because they felt this guy was
disagreeing with me or that he was
refuting something in my video I think
people gave the
because they sympathize with his story a
guy wrote in and said that he was 31
years old and you know he had wasted ten
years of his life but that he was going
back to university now that he was
pursuing his dreams and that he really
didn't like the fact that I stated
bluntly in my video that I felt the
person I was criticizing Amy Kay a
particular person that she had wasted
years and years of her life and now in
her 30s was not going to be able to
accomplish much of anything she wasn't
going to be able to make the transition
to being a parent she wasn't gonna make
the transition having a particular
career or what have you so various
people responded to that and as they say
I think people were giving the thumbs up
not so much because he was contradicting
me but because they liked the uplifting
story of him saying that even though he
had wasted ten years of his life and put
a foot on that we don't know we don't
know what that means when someone tells
you they didn't go to school and they
didn't have a career then do they mean
because they wasted 10 years or does
that mean cocaine does that mean
methamphetamines does that mean video
games does that just mean I don't know
lassitude just lack of ambition not that
we don't you don't know when someone
tells you they've got a gap of 10 years
in life and there were also people
responding this about whether or not my
meaning was strictly biological like
that this person had lost their I mean
there were two sides the biological view
of it some people believe and then this
is quite false that like the human brain
is only capable of learning new things
when you're young or that the the human
body is only capable of having and
raising children when you're young we'll
know this this isn't about capability
this is about ability this is about
acumen it's about self discipline okay
so Amy Kay know this is really for me a
digression this is the main point of the
video why would she make a bad mother
so the woman specifically featured in
that that video it's not just that she's
old she's old and she's still childish
this is about the development of the
mind that's what I'm talking about here
why is it that she is incapable of going
back to university and starting a new
career learning some new field it's not
that she's old
it's that she's old and she's still
childish she's still immature and and
those issues of developing acumen they
don't rely on formal education they
don't rely on credentials they don't
rely on having a teacher and an assigned
textbook and an exam it certainly is
possible to work as the checkout guy at
a grocery store you know to stand behind
the counter end cashier via cashier in a
grocery store and to be going home every
night and reading Aristotle and
passionately studying ancient Greek and
to be incredibly well-prepared when you
decide in your 30s to go back to
university but that's not what we're
talking about here I mean those people
real autodidact are extraordinary and
the other tragedy here I mean education
takes unequal people and makes them only
more unequal if you had the
self-discipline to be an autodidact for
ten years while being a cashier to work
really hard at any one thing whether it
was ancient Greek or modern Korean or
Japanese or you know almost any serious
intellectual pursuit you would develop
the acumen you would develop the
self-discipline to then apply your mind
to a new and different field which is
something I've demonstrated in my own
life again and again for better and for
worse now I could here digress there are
limits to that to what extent that to
what extent can I apply the mental
self-discipline
I gained in learning lotion and poly and
studying Cree and working on Chinese and
studying history and politics to what
extent could I apply that to mathematics
could I go back to university and really
try to do math seriously could I go back
to university and try to do chemistry
seriously you know to some extent I mean
to some extent I'm prepared just with my
level of alacrity acumen self discipline
my understanding of the academic process
just how to study for an exam and any
topic how to you know how to be
organized how to you know even how to
ask for help how to recognize when
you're working alone with the chemistry
textbook wait wait wait I understand
this part but I'm not following what's
here and whether I go to Google for help
or go to the tutor for the in the
universities intro and being positively
encouraged and focused on filling in the
gaps you're on understanding there are
some skills that I can take from the
study of Chinese language history and
politics and apply to chemistry or math
but for sure there are limits and some
things are much more directly applicable
would have been very easy for me to
apply my background in philosophy from
philosophy in one language to philosophy
to another from you know ancient India
to ancient Greece or from modern Europe
to modern China Japan and so on some
some of these things are some of these
transitions are easier than others and
for sure I mean my yeah enough about me
this guy left a comment saying you know
in this positive and uplifting way that
even though he wasted ten years of his
life he's now going to throw himself
into university and he doesn't feel that
he's lost as his opportunities in life
he doesn't feel that he's about wasting
ten years whatever the waste really
means he doesn't feel that this is
something he he can't redeem or can't
compensate for really so your claim is
that because at age 31 you think you can
still do what a 19 year old can do when
they just finished high school you think
you can compete with the 19 year old so
you think you're cool so you think
there's nothing for you to regret you
don't think it's a problem that you lost
those 10 years of your life you're dead
wrong you're dead wrong so you think
when you finish this program in your 40s
you think you're gonna be at the level
of what a 25 year old or something it's
tragic
we don't want to accept it we want to
imagine that okay
just about the time we're getting mature
enough to accept that you know the rich
get richer and the poor get poorer we
want to have a kind of meritocracy of
the mind we want to imagine that you
know at least in terms of our
intellectual accomplishments we have
some kind of democracy we have some kind
of even playing field and we don't we
have up we have a slanted playing field
and the inequality over time only gets
more and more extreme
there was a young woman who I flirted
with and joked with in one of my
university programs saying young woman
but like this guy she was she was into
her 30s and one day you know I asked her
kind of what happened to a gap of about
10 years in her life
so we talked a couple times before we
got along with some some kind of mutual
attraction which was why we talk to each
other as much as we did and all she
could say to me was you know during
those years during some number of years
after she'd finished high school she
said all she did was party and you don't
know what the word party means you don't
know if it means cocaine or
methamphetamine or champagne or just
video games just sitting on the sitting
on the couch playing you know Nintendo
or whatever the video system was at the
time you you really don't know what it
means but you know whether you're
looking at a TK or this guy writing in
to me about his dream to go back to
college if you weren't developing your
own mental acumen your own mental
ability your own depth of knowledge and
experience in some really meaningful way
you've got a deficit there that you're
not gonna be able to make up that you're
not gonna be able to compensate for and
you know the depth and significance of
that tragedy it's very hard for people
to accept it's very hard for people to
deal with that same young woman who lost
10 years
partying she did get a master's degree
she finished her master's degree and I
knew the whole contest she was in a vet
university frankly a lot of the time
professors with an older student like
that they just kind of waved them
through they don't really hold them to
the same standards other people she
finished her master's degree but what
what was she a master of she was a
master of nothing and I mean was she at
the level of knowledge ability I don't
know capacity of a 25 year old or 22
year old not really not really she was a
she was a dried up has-been who you know
happened to have this credential and had
nowhere near the level of
knowledge that someone should have at
her age in her field she wasn't a master
of her field she wasn't a master of
anything and if you have become a master
of one thing of something you can as I
was saying before transfer that from one
field to another you can take the level
of self discipline focus clarity and
acumen that you've developed studying
one thing and apply it to another the
reason why Amy Kay
could not now make the transition even
to starting and raising a family is not
in my opinion biological it's mental its
intellectual the problem is not that
she's 31 years old or whatever she is
the problem is that she's still
incredibly childish if any man any scene
intelligent man is looking at her as a
possible mother he'd be looking at
someone who still needs many many years
from the present to prepare mentally
intellectually probably even
economically to make the transition from
her current totally self indulgent
totally childish lifestyle to being a
mature responsible self disciplined
parent who can take on responsibility
not just for feeding and clothing a
child but for educating that child
instead of being preoccupied with
educating yourself or being preoccupied
with just being a being a brat herself
it's appealing the myth that you can
pull yourself up by your bootstraps it's
appealing the myth that you can just
bounce back but the vast majority of
people simply put balance I challenged
Maude vegan about this when we had our a
long long debate I think it's a
three-hour debate about drug policy
drugs hard drugs like cocaine and heroin
being legal or illegal and it's really
reassuring for people who tell
themselves oh this person was an addict
like a drug addict for ten years but
it's okay now they're back in university
they'll bounce back no they won't
the way you would develop your mind if
you spent those 10 years just worrying
just being clean and sober but worrying
not necessarily hitting the books not
necessarily learning and some other more
positive sense but being clean and sober
and worrying knowing that you were gonna
go back to university one day you would
develop your mind in a whole different
way from someone who's living without
any worries because they're high on
painkillers because they're adult and
distracted and deeply involved in their
own life of self-indulgence self
distraction there's a guy here on
YouTube called bio s3 training and he
had the honesty to say when he got clean
he was a drug addict for about ten years
and he said I'm sorry I forget the exact
years in volt but he said something like
you finally quit all drugs when he was
but he said emotionally he was still at
the level of a 17 year old or even worse
that he was this really really immature
17 year old he didn't know how to
regulate his own emotions he didn't know
what discipline his mind
he'd had girlfriends he had long-term
relationships but all those girlfriends
have been high on drugs and he'd been
high on drugs so we didn't really know
how to talk through problems like even
just on that personal face-to-face basis
he didn't have skills in terms of
management you know again even in a
sense of management of himself
management of his own time management
own feelings self-expression and so on
and you know he was left in this
situation of being uh you know much
older than his own level of
of mental development guys it's much
much easier to bounce back economically
it's much much easier for someone who
was a cocaine addict to turn around and
earn a decent living then it is return
all right for them to turn around and
become a decent parent or for them to
turn around and become an intellectual
capable of really accomplish something
with their minds